Controllers
===

**Controllers** - business logic of your project. Controller contains multiple **actions** - methods of the controller.

Project contains one or multiple controllers. All controllers located in `controllers` folder.

When you call a page `/blogs` the `controllers.blogs.Blogs` involved to handle this request. In this case - the `index` action will be called. When you call a page `/blogs/create` the same `Blogs` controller used, but with his `create` method.

Main project controller called `Index`. When you request website - you see welcome page that generated by `Index` controller and his `index` action. If you request page that doesn't exists - the `not_found` action calls, starting from requested controller and ending search the `not_found` action in the `Index` controller.


Naming
---

Controller is a class that defined in the file with the same name as the controller, but in lower case. For example, the `Blogs` controller should be defined in `controllers/blogs.py` file. If you have controller with name like this `BlogArticles` than place it in file `controllers/blog_articles.py` (insert underscore for each new word in class name).

Controller has **actions** - functions that defined inside the controller class. Any function that defined in the controller - is an action and can be accessed from the url address. If you need to add new funtion that sould be hidded from the public access - prefix it with underscore, for example `_get_something()`.

When you need to show "change user profile" page - you need to define an action `change` inside the controller `UserProfile`. Url address for this page is `/user_profile/change/` (you can send form as POST request to this url address to handle save data action as well as handle GET request to show data).

Also we have few special actions:
- First one is **`index`** that called when we provide nothing in url address after the controller name. For example, requested `/blogs` page. In this case we call `Blogs` controller with `index` action.
- Second one is **`not_found`** that called when requested action doesn't found inside the requested controller.

Action function get only one argument - the [request](request.md) object. The `request` give you access to all data from request, including requested url address, quesry string, request method, GET or POST data and more.